fix!: standardize supported versions and set upper bound limit (#2196)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib: GUIDELINES.md

- In situations where the patch logic is not trivial and it helps to specify patch events in the right context and nuances. `aws-lambda` logs additional properties extracted from the lambda framework and exposes them for troubleshooting.

The cases above are not covered by the base class and offer additional context to the user troubleshooting an issue with the instrumentation.

## Supported Versions

### Usage

Instrumentation can specify the supported version to patch for each instrumented module and instrumented module file by specifying it in the `InstrumentationNodeModuleFile` and `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition` like so:

```js

> const supporterVersions = ['>=1.2.3 <3'];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const supportedVersions = ['>=1.2.3 <3'];
```

  protected init() {

    const someModuleFile = new InstrumentationNodeModuleFile(
      'foo/lib/some-file.js',

>       supporterVersions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      supportedVersions,
```

      myFilePatch,
      myFileUnpatch,
    );

    const module = new InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition(
      'foo',

>       supporterVersions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      supportedVersions,
```

      myModulePatch,
      myModuleUnpatch,
      [someModuleFile]
    );
    return module
  }
```

> 

Reviewer: The following feels like a lot of prose for the topic. I'm worried that if GUIDELINES get too long then they don't get read. Would you consider a (possibly much) shorter proposed alternative for this section?

Author: Sure I am open to making it shorter. 

Wondering if the guideline file is meant to be read fully by contributors, or more as a reference for a specific topic that documents our decisions and reasoning so it can be used for review, changes etc.

Feel free to suggest new shorter text 🙏

Reviewer 2: I am torn on this - on one hand, all of this detail is really useful context. On the other, it indeed is a lot of text. What do you think about leading with the common example start to finish up front, then a lower section for "Variations" which can be linked from the common example for folks who know they have something different. A "tldr" does tend to be useful when there is a lot of content.

Author: I made changes to the GUIDELINES. making it shorter, moving stuff around. might not be perfect yet, but please have a second look when you get a chance

### Variations

Instrumentation usually targets some user-facing package that is used by the end user.
However, to achieve the instrumentation goals, it may need to patch one or more modules of the same or different packages, with potentially different patch implementations depending on the patched version.

We will refer to them as "instrumented package" which is the user-facing package, and "patched package" which is the package/s that are patched by the instrumentation.

The contrib repo has a few examples of different variations of common cases

#### Single Module

> This is the easy and common case, where the instrumented package is also also the patched package, thus the supported versions align.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the typical case, where the instrumented package is also the patched package, thus the supported versions align.
```

#### Different Modules

In this case, the instrumentation patches some internal modules (like with `redis-4` instrumentations, or `aws-sdk`). In this case the supported versions range is set on the patched packages, but the supported version upper range of the instrumented package is unknown as it depends on future versioning of the instrumented package dependencies.

> #### Nodejs Core Modules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Node.js Core Modules
```

> In this case, the instrumentation patches a nodejs internal module, which is not versioned (carry the same version of the node runtime). The supported versions range is set to `['*']`, and the supported versions is the same as the support of OpenTelemetry for Nodejs versions. The README should specify the supported versions of NodeJS and align with the "engines" field in `package.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, the instrumentation patches a Node.js internal module, which is not versioned because it carries the same version of the Node.js runtime. The supported versions range is set to `['*']`, and the supported versions will match OpenTelemetry for Node.js supported versions. The README should specify the supported versions of Node.js and align with the "engines" field in `package.json`.
```

#### Multiple Modules

> One instrumentation package can potentially instrument multiple modules of different packages and version ranges. This makes sense if they are related, for example: `pg` and `pg-pool`, `aws-sdk` dozens of client packages etc. In this case, the instrumentation should specify the supported versions range for each module (if possible), and the README should list them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One instrumentation package can potentially instrument multiple modules of different packages and version ranges. This makes sense if they are closely related, such as `pg` and `pg-pool`. In this case, the instrumentation should specify the supported versions range for each module (if possible), and the README should list them.
```

#### Different Patch Logic

> In some cases, instrumentations does not use the moduleExports in order to patch, it can hook up to nodejs diagnostics channel, patch globals (like browser instrumentations that patches the `window`), patch arbitrary lambda function handler, etc. In this cases, the use of supported versions can sometimes be more flexible, and the README should specify useful versioning information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, instrumentation does not use the moduleExports to patch, and instead hooks up to the Node.js diagnostics channel, or patches globals (like `window` being patched in browser instrumentations, or patches arbitrary lambda function handlers, etc. In these cases, the use of supported versions can sometimes be more flexible, and the README should specify useful versioning information.
```

### Range Specification

For versions that are a closed range, instrumentations should prefer to specify the supported versions of the instrumented package as `>=x.y.z <w` to promote consistency and readability across the code-base.

> If Instrumentations supports just one major version of the instrumented package, it can specify the version range as `^x.y.z` or `^x` which are equivalent but more readable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an instrumentation supports just one major version of the instrumented package, it can specify the version range as `^x.y.z` or `^x`, which are equivalent but more readable.
```

> Instrumentations for nodejs internal modules can specify version range of `['*']`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instrumentations for Node.js internal modules can specify version range of `['*']`.
```

Instrumentation should use an upper and lower bounds for the version ranges it uses for patches. This is to ensure that any new major versions of the instrumented package are not automatically patched by the instrumentation, which could lead to unexpected behavior.

> New major versions should be reviewed and tested by before being added to the supported versions list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New major versions should be reviewed and tested before being added to the supported versions list.
```

### Documentation

> Instrumentation should have a "## Supported Versions" section in the README file that lists the supported versions range of the instrumented package - the user-facing package which makes most sense to human consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instrumentation should have a "## Supported Versions" section in the README file that lists the supported versions range of the instrumented package.
```

This range should hide any internal implementation details like the use of internal modules, different patch logic for different versions, etc. It should focus on the relevance to the human consumer.

For cases where the range is not capped by an upper limit, the README should specify a version with an open upper limit `>=4.0.0`. This should be revisited when new versions are released.

### Add New Supported Versions

> When a new major version of the instrumented package is released, renovate bot will open a PR in contrib which is an easy was to become aware of it. The instrumentation maintainer should review the new version and check compatibility with existing code. It can then be added to the supported versions list to be released in the next version of the instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a new major version of the instrumented package is released, renovate bot will open a PR in contrib which helps maintainers to become aware of it. The instrumentation maintainer should review the new version and check compatibility with existing code. It can then be added to the supported versions list to be released in the next version of the instrumentation.
```

Checklist for adding a new version to the supported versions list:

- [ ] Review which functions are patched by the instrumentation and if they were changed in the new version that need support in code.
- [ ] Check for breaking changes in the new version that could affect the instrumentation.
- [ ] Test the instrumentation with the new version to ensure it works as expected.

> - [ ] Update the supported versions list in the instrumentation code, perhaps with different patches and additional `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition` that target the new version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Update the supported versions list in the instrumentation code, perhaps with different patches and additional `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition`s that target the new version.
```

- [ ] Update the README file to reflect the support for new versions.

> - [ ] For instrumentations that uses test-all-verions `.tav.yaml`, add the new version to the list of versions to test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] For instrumentations that use test-all-versions `.tav.yaml`, add the new version to the list of versions to test.
```

- Patch Logic - instrumentation may use the `moduleExports` to patch, or hooks up to other mechanisms for recording signals. examples are: Node.js diagnostics channel, patching globals (like `window` being patched in browser instrumentations, or patches arbitrary lambda function handlers, etc.

### Range Specification

For versions that are a closed range, instrumentations should prefer to specify the supported versions of the instrumented package as `>=x.y.z <w` to promote consistency and readability across the code-base.

If an instrumentation supports just one major version of the instrumented package, it can specify the version range as `^x.y.z` or `^x`, which are equivalent but more readable.

Instrumentation should use an upper and lower bounds for the version ranges it uses for patches. This is to ensure that any new major versions of the instrumented package are not automatically patched by the instrumentation, which could lead to unexpected behavior.

New major versions should be reviewed and tested before being added to the supported versions list.

Specific guidelines for different cases:

> - For `Different Modules`, instrumentations can use an upper limit on patched packages but it is unknown which future versions of the instrumented package will continue to use it. Thus it is ok to use an open upper limit `>=1.2.3` for the instrumented package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For `Different Modules`, instrumentations can use an upper limit on patched packages but it is unknown which future versions of the instrumented package will continue to use it. Thus it is ok to use an open upper limit, for example `>=1.2.3`, for the instrumented package.
```

- For `Different Patch Logic`, the use of supported versions can sometimes be more flexible, and the README should specify useful versioning information.

### Add New Supported Versions

When a new major version of the instrumented package is released, renovate bot will open a PR in contrib which helps maintainers to become aware of it. The instrumentation maintainer should review the new version and check compatibility with existing code. It can then be added to the supported versions list to be released in the next version of the instrumentation.

Checklist for adding a new version to the supported versions list:

- [ ] Review which functions are patched by the instrumentation and if they were changed in the new version that need support in code.
- [ ] Check for breaking changes in the new version that could affect the instrumentation.
- [ ] Test the instrumentation with the new version to ensure it works as expected.
- [ ] Update the supported versions list in the instrumentation code, perhaps with different patches and additional `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition`s that target the new version.
- [ ] Update the README file to reflect the support for new versions.

> - [ ] For instrumentations that use test-all-versions `.tav.yaml`, add the new version to the list of versions to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] For instrumentations that use test-all-versions `.tav.yml`, add the new version to the list of versions to test.
```
